---
title: "Alchemist: A Unified Accelerator Architecture for Cross-Scheme Fully Homomorphic Encryption"
collection: publications
permalink: /publications/DAC2024
venue: "Proceedings of the 61st Annual Design Automation Conference (DAC 2024)"
date: 2024-6-23
citation: '<b>Alchemist: A Unified Accelerator Architecture for Cross-Scheme Fully Homomorphic Encryption</b>. Jianan Mu, Husheng Han, Shangyi Shi, Jing Ye, Zizhen Liu, Shengwen Liang, Meng Li, Mingzhe Zhang, Song Bian, Xing Hu, Huawei Li, Xiaowei Li.<i>2024 Proceedings of the 61st Annual Design Automation Conference</i>. <b>DAC 2024</b>.'
---

## Abstract
The use of cross-scheme fully homomorphic encryption (FHE) in privacy-preserving applications present to be a new challenge to hardware accelerator design. Existing accelerator architectures with customized polynomial-level operator abstraction fail to efficiently handle hybrid FHE schemes due to the mismatch between computational demands and available hardware resources under various parameter settings. In this work, we propose a new accelerator architecture that consists of a novel finer-grained low-level operator, i.e., Meta-OP, that not only mathematically supports a diverse range of polynomial operations, but is also hardware-friendly for accelerator design without complex topological logic. We then design a new slot-based data management scheme to efficiently handle the distinct memory access patterns over the Meta-OP. With a slot-based data management approach, Alchemist can accelerate both arithmetic and logic FHE workloads with high hardware utilization rates. In the experiment, we show that Alchemist is up to 24,829× faster than CPU. For arithmetic FHE, compared with the SOTA ASIC accelerators, Alchemist achieves a 29.4× performance per area improvement on average. For logic FHE, compared with the SOTA ASIC accelerators, Alchemist achieves a 7.0× overall speed up on average.