---
title: "Balancing performance and lifetime of MLC PCM by using a region retention monitor"
collection: publications
permalink: /publications/HPCA2017
venue: "2017 IEEE International Symposium on High Performance Computer Architecture (HPCA2017)"
date: 2017-2-4
citation: '<b>Balancing performance and lifetime of MLC PCM by using a region retention monitor</b>. <b>Mingzhe Zhang</b>, Lunkai Zhang, Lei Jiang, Zhiyong Liu, Frederic T Chong. <i>2017 IEEE International Symposium on High Performance Computer Architecture</i>. <b>HPCA 2017</b>.'
---

## Abstract
Multi Level Cell (MLC) Phase Change Memory (PCM) is an enhancement of PCM technology, which provides higher capacity by allowing multiple digital bits to be stored in a single PCM cell. However, the retention time of MLC PCM is limited by the resistance drift problem and refresh operations are required. Previous work shows that there exists a trade-off between write latency and retention-a write scheme with more SET iterations and smaller current provides a longer retention time but at the cost of a longer write latency. Otherwise, a write scheme with fewer SET iterations achieves high performance for writes but requires a greater number of refresh operations due to its significantly reduced retention time, and this hurts the lifetime of MLC PCM. In this paper, we show that only a small part of memory (i.e., hot memory regions) will be frequently accessed in a given period of time. Based on such an observation, we propose Region Retention Monitor (RRM), a novel structure that records and predicts the write frequency of memory regions. For every incoming memory write operation, RRM select a proper write latency for it. Our evaluations show that RRM helps the system improves the balance between system performance and memory lifetime. On the performance side, the system with RRM bridges 77.2% of the performance gap between systems with long writes and systems with short writes. On the lifetime side, a system with RRM achieves a lifetime of 6.4 years, while systems using only long writes and short writes achieve lifetimes of 10.6 and 0.3 years, respectively. Also, we can easily control the aggressiveness of RRM through an attribute called hot threshold. A more aggressively configured RRM can achieve the performance which is only 3.5% inferior than the system using static short writes, while still achieve a lifetime of 5.78 years.